README.md, before:

# Wealth
A suite of code and Jupyter notebooks to obtain insights into personal finances.

`Wealth` contains code and `Jupyter` notebook templates that help to get insights into all things
finance, e.g. transactions, savings, compound interest, inflation and pension.
Export your bank transaction data as CSV into your `Wealth` workspace and experiment via interactive
widgets.

The project has following structure:
```
.
├── LICENSE                         The project's copyright license.
├── prototype/                      Contains exemplaric defaults.
│   ├── config/                     Contains config file examples.
│   ├── notebooks/                  Contains the Jupyter notebook templates.
│   └── scripts/                    Contains utility scripts for the workspace.
├── README.md                       You are now here.
├── requirements.txt                Requirements.txt for a Wealth workspace project.
├── requirements-dev.txt            Additional requirements for a Wealth workspace project.
├── scripts/                        Contains utility scripts.
│   └── create-workspace.sh         Sets up a workspace.
└── src/                            Contains source files.
    ├── wealth/                     The Python source code package.
    └── setup.py                    Setup file for the Python package.
```


## Security Note
`Wealth` may handle sensible personal information.  
`Wealth` does not transfer any personal information or data derived from it to anyone.  
`Wealth` computes everything locally.


## Prerequisites
`Wealth` runs on `Linux` and `Mac OS` and requires `Python`, at least version `3.7.0`.  
`Wealth` downloads further requirements during setup.


## Setup
Wealth distinguishes between the actual `Wealth` project/repository and `workspaces` that you can
set up in order to avoid accidentally uploading private data to the internet.

To setup a `Wealth` workspace, go to the root directory of the project and run:
```bash
scripts/create-workspace.sh [--dev] [<path/to/new/workspace>]
```
You can specify a path or install a workspace under the default location:
```bash
scripts/create-workspace.sh                     # create a workspace under ~/wealth/workspace
scripts/create-workspace.sh  "~/my/finances"    # create a  workspace under ~/my/finances
```

You can provide the argument `--dev` to install additional development packages.  
Consult the script `scripts/create-workspace.sh` for further information.

Upon installation, `Wealth` creates a workspace directory with `Jupyter` notebooks, example
configuration and example data.  
You can replace the example data with you own.  

A workspace directory is separate from the `Wealth` project in order keep your data out of
`Wealth`'s version control. The data you add to the workspace or derive via `Wealth`'s tools stays
only in your hands.

After successfully running `create-workspace.sh`, you can go to the new workspace and start using
your `Wealth` workspace.


## Deinstallation
In order to delete a workspace, simply delete the workspace folder.  
If you want to delete the project `Wealth` from your system, just delete its folder.


### Import Banking Data
Online Banking services provide means to download lists of transactions in a `*.csv` file format.
You can download these `*.csv` files and feed them to `Wealth`.

1. Log in to your online bank account and download `*.csv` files. This is different for every bank.
   Usually, you may find the download/export functionality under a category called "Transactions" or
   similar. You should be able to download `CSV` data from specified time frames. It may be
   beneficial to download indivual files for fixed time frames, e.g. different `*.csv` files for
   each year.

`CSV` data from different bank accounts may have a different structure.
`Wealth` contains parsers for data of the following banks:
- `DKB - Deutsche Kreditbank Giro`
- `DKB Visa - Deutsche Kreditbank Visa`
- `N26 - with support for Spaces`
- `Sparkasse`

Each bank has their own CSV way to define the CSVs. Rename the `*.csv` files so that `Wealth` is
able to connect any given csv with the right bank.

The csv files must contain the bank account types in their file names.  
Available account-names are:
1. `dkb-giro`
2. `dkb-visa`
3. `n26-mastercard`
4. `sparkasse-giro`

For example, for an N26 credit card account, the a valid filename would be
`2021-n26-mastercard.csv`.


## License
See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.


## Contributing
Work on your stuff locally, branch, commit and modify to your heart's content.
If there is anything you can extend, fix or improve, please do so!
Happy coding!

Commit message:

Add an .nvmrc file to the prototype
Necessary to activate a node version during building of ipywidgets or
so.
Won't be copied over into the workspace since it is a hidden file.

Also mention it in the README.md.

README.md, after:

# Wealth
A suite of code and Jupyter notebooks to obtain insights into personal finances.

`Wealth` contains code and `Jupyter` notebook templates that help to get insights into all things
finance, e.g. transactions, savings, compound interest, inflation and pension.
Export your bank transaction data as CSV into your `Wealth` workspace and experiment via interactive
widgets.

The project has following structure:
```
.
├── LICENSE                         The project's copyright license.
├── prototype/                      Contains exemplaric defaults.
│   ├── config/                     Contains config file examples.
│   ├── notebooks/                  Contains the Jupyter notebook templates.
│   └── scripts/                    Contains utility scripts for the workspace.
├── README.md                       You are now here.
├── requirements.txt                Requirements.txt for a Wealth workspace project.
├── requirements-dev.txt            Additional requirements for a Wealth workspace project.
├── scripts/                        Contains utility scripts.
│   └── create-workspace.sh         Sets up a workspace.
└── src/                            Contains source files.
    ├── wealth/                     The Python source code package.
    └── setup.py                    Setup file for the Python package.
```


## Security Note
`Wealth` may handle sensible personal information.  
`Wealth` does not transfer any personal information or data derived from it to anyone.  
`Wealth` computes everything locally.


## Prerequisites
`Wealth` runs on `Linux` and `Mac OS` and requires `Python`, at least version `3.7.0` as well as
the node version manager `nvm`.  
`Wealth` downloads further requirements during setup.


## Setup
Wealth distinguishes between the actual `Wealth` project/repository and `workspaces` that you can
set up in order to avoid accidentally uploading private data to the internet.

To setup a `Wealth` workspace, go to the root directory of the project and run:
```bash
scripts/create-workspace.sh [--dev] [<path/to/new/workspace>]
```
You can specify a path or install a workspace under the default location:
```bash
scripts/create-workspace.sh                     # create a workspace under ~/wealth/workspace
scripts/create-workspace.sh  "~/my/finances"    # create a  workspace under ~/my/finances
```

You can provide the argument `--dev` to install additional development packages.  
Consult the script `scripts/create-workspace.sh` for further information.

Upon installation, `Wealth` creates a workspace directory with `Jupyter` notebooks, example
configuration and example data.  
You can replace the example data with you own.  

A workspace directory is separate from the `Wealth` project in order keep your data out of
`Wealth`'s version control. The data you add to the workspace or derive via `Wealth`'s tools stays
only in your hands.

After successfully running `create-workspace.sh`, you can go to the new workspace and start using
your `Wealth` workspace.


## Deinstallation
In order to delete a workspace, simply delete the workspace folder.  
If you want to delete the project `Wealth` from your system, just delete its folder.


### Import Banking Data
Online Banking services provide means to download lists of transactions in a `*.csv` file format.
You can download these `*.csv` files and feed them to `Wealth`.

1. Log in to your online bank account and download `*.csv` files. This is different for every bank.
   Usually, you may find the download/export functionality under a category called "Transactions" or
   similar. You should be able to download `CSV` data from specified time frames. It may be
   beneficial to download indivual files for fixed time frames, e.g. different `*.csv` files for
   each year.

`CSV` data from different bank accounts may have a different structure.
`Wealth` contains parsers for data of the following banks:
- `DKB - Deutsche Kreditbank Giro`
- `DKB Visa - Deutsche Kreditbank Visa`
- `N26 - with support for Spaces`
- `Sparkasse`

Each bank has their own CSV way to define the CSVs. Rename the `*.csv` files so that `Wealth` is
able to connect any given csv with the right bank.

The csv files must contain the bank account types in their file names.  
Available account-names are:
1. `dkb-giro`
2. `dkb-visa`
3. `n26-mastercard`
4. `sparkasse-giro`

For example, for an N26 credit card account, the a valid filename would be
`2021-n26-mastercard.csv`.


## License
See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.


## Contributing
Work on your stuff locally, branch, commit and modify to your heart's content.
If there is anything you can extend, fix or improve, please do so!
Happy coding!
